Before we start building the project it is very important for us to understand the working of 
the ACS712 Current sensor as it is the key component of the project. Measuring current especially 
AC current is always a tough task due to the noise coupled with it improper isolation problem etc. 
But, with the help of this ACS712 module which was engineered by Allegro thing have become a lot 
easier. This module works on the principle of Hall-effect, which was discovered by Dr. Edwin Hall. 
According his principle, when a current carrying conductor is placed into a magnetic field, a 
voltage is generated across its edges perpendicular to the directions of both the current and the 
magnetic field. Let us not get too deep into the concept but, simply put we use a hall sensor to 
measure the magnetic field around a current carrying conductor. This measurement will be in terms 
of millivolts which we called as the hall-voltage. This measured hall-voltage is proportional to the 
current that was flowing through the conductor. The major advantage of using ACS712 Current Sensor is 
that is can measure both AC and DC current and it also provides isolation between the Load (AC/DC load) 
and Measuring Unit (Microcontroller part). As shown in the picture we have three pins on the module 
which are Vcc, Vout and Ground respectively. The 2-pin terminal block is where the current carrying 
wire should be passed through. The module work on +5V so the Vcc should be powered by 5V and the ground 
should be connected to Ground of the system. The Vout pin has an offset voltage of 2500mV, meaning when 
there is no current flowing through the wire then the output voltage will be 2500mV and when current 
flowing is positive, the voltage will be greater than 2500mV and when the current flowing is negative, 
the voltage will be less than 2500mV. We will be using the Analog pin of Arduino to read the output voltage 
(Vout) of the module, which will be 512(2500mV) when there is no current flowing through the wire. This 
value will reduce as the current flows in negative direction and will increase as the current flows in 
positive direction. The below table will help you understand how the output voltage and ADC value varies 
based on the current flowing through the wire.

Vout Voltage(mV) = (ADC Value/  1023)*5000
Current Through the Wire (A) = (Vout(mv)-2500)/185
